# System Model 1 (SM1): Gaussian Process for the original signal 

This folder provides the code required to implement SM1 as described in the main body of the paper. 

The Code folder is organized as follows:
1. **Notebooks**. This folder contains two notebooks: 
 - **Case_study_motivation_IMFs.ipynb**. This notebook aims to justify why a decomposition method dealing with non-stationarity and non-linearity of the data is highly required to analyse speech signals. The original speech signals' empirical covariance matrices are highly non-stationary; therefore, any standard method would not work in these settings. Moreover, the final goal is to detect fast changes signalling the presence of Parkinson's disease even at very early stages. Therefore, modelling the IMFs, i.e. the basis functions of the EMD, will be a lot more beneficial and provide more reliable and robust results to noise. Note that the second part of the notebook provides some early results conducted wiht fitting a Gaussian Process to the data using standard stationary kernel such as radial basis function (RBF), Square Exponential, etc. (see the following notebook for more information). The provided plots show results of the centered kernel target alignment (CKTA) (for more information about this measure see https://jmlr.org/papers/volume13/cortes12a/cortes12a.pdf) measuring the goodness of fit of these kernels with the data. The reader should not focus on this a lot, but the reasoning behind it is to show how the CKTA does not change across the x-axis providing different hyperparameters for the chosen kernel. Hence, this justifies the need for a more refined one, i.e. the Fisher kernel (see the paper for further details about this).
 - **Hyper_study.ipynb**. This notebook provides the kernel Gram Matrix of standard stationary kernels, which have been used in the second part of the above notebook. This is highly useful to understand how these standard structures will never be able to detect a highly complex structure as the one of the empirical covariances, particularly if fast changes must be detected to identify Parkinson's disease. For more details see the paper.
2. **GLRT_Test_HC_PD_Final.py**. This python file contains the code required for the GLRT testing procedure applied on SM1. There are multiple functions implemented which provide a package for this methodology, including the Fisher Kernel computation procedure required to obtain the Fisher score for the final Gram Matrix. 
3. **S_M1_hc_final.py** and **S_M1_pd_final.py**. This python files provides the procedure for the fitting of the ARIMA models required for the derivation of the Fisher Kernel (healthy and sick patients). For more details see the paper.

For space reasons, the results of the winner models and the GLRT tests are not provided, but can be requested by email.
